src/app/publications/posts/mea-scaling-aspects.mdx, before:

---
title: "More Electric Aircraft - Scaling Aspects and Weight Impact"
publishedAt: "2022-09-04"
summary: "This research publication investigates the impact of scaling on fuel consumption for More Electric Aircraft (MEA) by comparing conventional and electrical subsystems."
team:
  - name: "Emil Holmgren"
    role: "Researcher"
    avatar: "/images/emil.avif"
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/emil-holmgren-theengineer/"
  - name: "Dhruv Haldar"
    role: "Researcher"
    avatar: "/images/1700894012265.avif"
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/dhruvhaldar/"
  - name: "Lina Bertling Tjernberg"
    role: "Researcher"
    avatar: "/images/linab.avif"
  - name: "Andreas Johansson"
    role: "Researcher"
    avatar: "/images/johanss7.avif"
link: "/documents/meascalingaspects.pdf"
journal: "24th European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications (EPE'22 ECCE Europe)"
---

> _Calculations show that a reduction in fuel consumption is possible when electrifying the ECS. The MEA technology can therefore help the air transport industry to meet the climate goals._

## Overview

The primary objective is to develop a framework to evaluate fuel consumption for different aircraft sizes and flight profiles. The study, based on MATLAB simulations, focuses on the Environmental Control System (ECS) and its electrification's effects on efficiency and weight impact. The analysis covers a range of passenger aircraft sizes between **156 and 700 passengers**, simulating a round-trip route between **Copenhagen and Stockholm**.

## Key Features

- **Comparison of Conventional and Electric ECS:** Three configurations analyzed—ACM, E-ACM, and E-VCM.
- **Passenger Scaling Impact:** Investigation of how varying passenger numbers affect fuel consumption.
- **Flight Profile Considerations:** Simulation of real-world scenarios, including round-trip flights between Copenhagen and Stockholm.
- **Subsystem Weight and Drag Analysis:** Effects of additional weight and induced drag on aircraft fuel efficiency.

# Technologies Used

- **MATLAB:** Development of numerical models for energy consumption and aircraft simulation.
- **Computational Aerodynamics:** Thrust and drag estimations based on flight conditions.
- **Heat Transfer Modelling:** ECS efficiency evaluation under varying environmental conditions.

# Challenges and Learnings

- **Balancing Efficiency and Weight:** The additional weight of electric ECS offsets some operational fuel efficiency gains.
- **Subsystem Interactions:** Dynamic interactions between aircraft subsystems affect overall energy consumption.
- **Optimizing ECS for Different Conditions:** Identifying the trade-offs between cooling, heating, and power requirements.

# Outcome

The study concludes that MEA technologies, specifically electrifying the ECS, can lead to significant fuel savings. The results demonstrated:

- **ACM vs. E-ACM:** Fuel savings between **4.0% and 6.8%**.
- **ACM vs. E-VCM:** Fuel savings between **5.5% and 8.2%**.

These savings depend on aircraft size and flight profile, with larger aircraft benefiting more from electrification. Optimized ECS configurations provide improved operational efficiency. Future work includes expanding electrification to additional subsystems and refining the simulation model for broader applicability.

---

This project highlights advancements in More Electric Aircraft (MEA) technologies and their role in optimizing aircraft subsystems. It provides valuable insights for aerospace engineers and regulatory bodies seeking to implement more efficient ECS subsystems.

Commit message:

feat: Add new publication 'More Electric Aircraft (MEA) - Scaling Aspects and Weight Impact' and its associated document.

src/app/publications/posts/mea-scaling-aspects.mdx, after:

---
title: "More Electric Aircraft - Scaling Aspects and Weight Impact"
publishedAt: "2022-09-04"
summary: "This research publication investigates the impact of scaling on fuel consumption for More Electric Aircraft (MEA) by comparing conventional and electrical subsystems."
team:
  - name: "Emil Holmgren"
    role: "Researcher"
    avatar: "/images/emil.avif"
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/emil-holmgren-theengineer/"
  - name: "Dhruv Haldar"
    role: "Researcher"
    avatar: "/images/1700894012265.avif"
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/dhruvhaldar/"
  - name: "Lina Bertling Tjernberg"
    role: "Researcher"
    avatar: "/images/linab.avif"
  - name: "Andreas Johansson"
    role: "Researcher"
    avatar: "/images/johanss7.avif"
link: "/documents/meascalingaspects.pdf"
journal: "24th European Conference on Power Electronics and Applications (EPE'22 ECCE Europe)"
---

> _Calculations show that a reduction in fuel consumption is possible when electrifying the ECS. The MEA technology can therefore help the air transport industry to meet the climate goals._

# Overview

The primary objective is to develop a framework to evaluate fuel consumption for different aircraft sizes and flight profiles. The study, based on MATLAB simulations, focuses on the Environmental Control System (ECS) and its electrification's effects on efficiency and weight impact. The analysis covers a range of passenger aircraft sizes between **156 and 700 passengers**, simulating a round-trip route between **Copenhagen and Stockholm**.

## Key Features

- **Comparison of Conventional and Electric ECS:** Three configurations analyzed—ACM, E-ACM, and E-VCM.
- **Passenger Scaling Impact:** Investigation of how varying passenger numbers affect fuel consumption.
- **Flight Profile Considerations:** Simulation of real-world scenarios, including round-trip flights between Copenhagen and Stockholm.
- **Subsystem Weight and Drag Analysis:** Effects of additional weight and induced drag on aircraft fuel efficiency.

# Technologies Used

- **MATLAB:** Development of numerical models for energy consumption and aircraft simulation.
- **Computational Aerodynamics:** Thrust and drag estimations based on flight conditions.
- **Heat Transfer Modelling:** ECS efficiency evaluation under varying environmental conditions.

# Challenges and Learnings

- **Balancing Efficiency and Weight:** The additional weight of electric ECS offsets some operational fuel efficiency gains.
- **Subsystem Interactions:** Dynamic interactions between aircraft subsystems affect overall energy consumption.
- **Optimizing ECS for Different Conditions:** Identifying the trade-offs between cooling, heating, and power requirements.

# Outcome

The study concludes that MEA technologies, specifically electrifying the ECS, can lead to significant fuel savings. The results demonstrated:

- **Electric Air Cycle Machine (E-ACM):** Achieves fuel savings of **4.0% to 6.8%**, with efficiency gains increasing as aircraft size scales from 156 to 700 passengers.
- **Electrical Vapour Cycle Machine (E-VCM):** Delivers higher fuel savings of **5.5% to 8.2%** across the same passenger range. The E-VCM utilizes a vapor compression cycle (similar to household AC), offering significantly higher operational efficiency which outweighs its increased weight penalty.

These savings depend on aircraft size and flight profile, with larger aircraft benefiting more from electrification. Optimized ECS configurations provide improved operational efficiency. Future work includes expanding electrification to additional subsystems and refining the simulation model for broader applicability.

---

This project highlights advancements in More Electric Aircraft (MEA) technologies and their role in optimizing aircraft subsystems. It provides valuable insights for aerospace engineers and regulatory bodies seeking to implement more efficient ECS subsystems.
